---
layout: project
title:  "The Algorithmic Reimagination"
subtitle: "exploring critical making with algorithmic tools in new media art"
date:   2023-10-01
categories: [audiovisual, poetry, generative AI, research, affordance analysis, critical making]
thumbnail: /assets/images/projects/MA-thesis-hands.gif
type: "Research & Making"
organization: "MA Thesis"
---

## Overview
This study examines the creative potentials of algorithms and how AI tools may be utilized by media artists to reappropriate them from tools of discrimination to tools of liberation. Through a case study and a critical making assignment, key findings regarding AI affordances are identified and related to appropriation in creative practice through the lens of play theory. AI affordances offer a range of possibilities for creative practices, which, when creatively appropriated, redefine the values and purposes of algorithms. The reflective capabilities of algorithms allow for deeper reflections on societal issues, making media art a powerful platform for addressing algorithmic bias and sparking critical discussions. Insights derived from critical inspection of tools and creative practices are used to develop the notion of the algorithmic reimagination. Algorithmic reimagination is a notion that embodies skills and attitudes that seek to challenge the dominant logics of algorithms and open pathways for actions. By embracing the spirit of play and imagination, artists can engage with algorithmic tools to provoke discussion, while envisioning a more just and equitable future. This paper highlights the significance of the algorithmic reimagination in shaping the narrative and impact of algorithms in contemporary society and in paving the way for a more inclusive and ethical AI culture from the domain of media art.

View critical making assignment video on <a href="https://youtu.be/kHtLMA8KJ9U?si=9EDLMz5pe97xvZ_6" target="_blank">[YouTube - Hands: an artificial performance in 3 parts]</a>.

## Tech stack
 - Adobe Premiere Pro (video editing)
 - ChatGPT (text generation)
 - Stable Diffusion (image and video synthesis)
 - Zeroscope (video generation)

<br/>

## Further Reading
<a href='/assets/docs/Suppaiboonsuk_TheAlgorithmicReimagination_pub.pdf' target="_blank">[thesis]</a>
